[Music]
Star Wars is known for its complex and
imaginative while building but we often
learn more from its meticulous costumes
and immersive production design than
what is explained in the script in
George Lucas's initial trilogy of films
the world of a galaxy far far away is
gritty and weathered showing the wear
and tear of everyday life what a piece
of junk
very different from the glossy futurism
of early sci-fi hits like Star Trek or
2001 this is because Star Wars is and
always has been more fairy tale than
science-fiction a struggle between good
and evil between light and dark told
with crystal clarity in its visual
storytelling
[Music]
this is perhaps best seen in the sagas
costume design which George Lucas wanted
to be familiar yet not distinctive yet
inconspicuous in Star Wars villains are
shrouded in darkness and flames
heralding destruction
inspired by brutalist architecture and
fascist uniforms the Empire and the
first order have a chilly militaristic
look with no sense of individuality the
stormtroopers are faceless robotic and
perfectly symmetrical
aside from the odd detail of a single
knee pad each allowing them to kneel
down and shoot their rifles and
formation meanwhile our heroes are
closer to the natural world living in
swamps and forests and discovering the
force by connecting with nature they
often wear natural colors and soft
fabrics
unlike the harsh uniformity of the
Empire they display a wide range of
personal tastes dashing rogue Han Solo's
getup is a mishmash of costume pieces
you'd expect to find in spaghetti
westerns from his low slung gun holster
to the long duster coat he wears in
Return of the Jedi and who might you be
Hans old smuggling pal Londo on the
other hand has an undeniable fondness
for capes when we first meet him his
ostentatious blue cape hints at his
wealth and flair for fashion and
image-conscious figure compared to the
scruffy Han Solo
Queen Amidala elaborate wardrobe was
inspired by traditional Mongolian gangs
Chinese Imperial robes and a headdress
worn by a 19th century Russian
aristocrat her hairstyles may call back
to her daughter Princess Leia but unlike
the simpler costumes of the original
trilogy Amidala's luxury clothing
suggests a life of privilege by
comparison
Leia favors practicality over glamour
never shy about making it subtext clear
star wars features villains who look
like demons robotic skeletons and
decaying corpses but by far the most
iconic is Darth Vader I find your lack
of faith disturbing
designed by concept artist Ralph
McQuarrie and costume designer John mole
Oh Darth Vader is enigmatic and medicine
hiding gruesome injuries and keeping him
alive with a respirator
Vader's armor disguises his human
frailty while projecting an intimidating
inhuman exterior
[Music]
like several other characters in the
franchise Vader please into some
problematic tropes linking disfigurement
with darkness
as George Lucas explored Vader's
backstory in the Star Wars prequels
costuming played a key role Anakin
Skywalker began as an innocent child
wearing a sand colored tunic like Luke
after he becomes a Jedi Knight Anakin
enters his angry goth face his dark
brown robes are the darkest of all the
Jedi with black leather tops that
suggests his inevitable slide towards
the dark side by Episode three
he is scarred and disfigured Anakin's
final transformation sees a team of
sinister droids cover his injured body
with Vader's armor an outfit that
becomes a living prison in these scenes
we witness the death of Anakin Skywalker
and the birth of Darth Vader an iconic
screen villain whose legacy defines the
Star Wars saga we're not done yet
even for the next generation when it
comes to embodying evil the Darth Vader
look is still in vogue
[Music]